MONTY — OPEN THE APPLICATION DESIGN

1. Double-click "Open Monty.html" in this folder.
2. It opens in your usual browser. Chrome or Edge works well.
3. The included photos and fonts work offline. No internet connection is needed.

You do NOT need to install anything or run a command to review the design.
The preview is saved in this HTML file and does not need the Codex preview panel.

TRY IT
- Click a food photo or drawing.
- Choose a quantity and click Add to bag.
- Open your bag, review the pickup window, and continue to payment.
- The payment sheet is shaped like QPay: an invoice, a QR and a list of banks.
  Tap any bank, or "Simulate a paid invoice", and the sheet polls until it is
  settled, exactly as a real one would. No money moves, no bank is contacted
  and no card or account details are ever requested. Try "Simulate a decline"
  too: nothing is charged and nothing is ordered.
- Your QR pickup pass appears. Find it again under Pickups.
- Use Merchant to list food, reuse an item, view orders and confirm pickup.
- Select the same shop as the order and enter its backup code to confirm collection.
- Enter that code again: an order can only be collected once.
- Tap the place name at the top (or "Map" beside "Shops near you") to open
  the location sheet. There is a map of all six shops, a simulated "Use my
  demo location" fix, six named places you can stand on, how far you will
  walk, and the districts. Every distance and walking time on every screen is
  measured from wherever you are standing. Real GPS is not connected and no
  location is stored or sent.
- Move yourself to Zaisan and watch the list, the shop rail and the sort order
  change. Set the radius to 1 km to see shops drop out of range.
- Tap a pin on the map to open a shop, then "See this shop's food".
- Six categories now: all food, bakery, meals, sweet, drinks and grocery.
- The list grows twelve at a time. "Show more finds" is at the bottom.
- Watch the clock. Every pickup window counts down, items inside their last
   45 minutes say "Closes in 34 min" and rise up the Nearby list, and a window
   that has shut cannot be bought or collected.
- Use the demo time control (top bar, or under You) to push the clock forward.
  Move it past a shop's closing time and watch the listings go, the basket
  refuse, and a paid order you never collected expire on its own.
- Rate a pickup once you have collected it. The score and the number of
  collections behind it appear on every card from that shop.
- In the Merchant workspace, "Money" shows what the shop actually recovered —
  only collected orders count, because an order nobody came for is food that
  went in the bin anyway. "Start tomorrow" rolls the day over and puts every
  standing daily listing back on the counter.
- Use Operations at the top for the overview.
- On a narrow screen, the workspaces are under You.
- Open You and pick a companion: Monty the loaf, Mishee the cat, Bankhar the
  dog, Khuvun the bunny, Khonggor the lamb or Botgo the young camel. They are
  pixel sprites with anime faces. Whoever you pick greets you on every screen
  and is remembered in this browser.
- Give your companion a tap wherever you see one. They answer with a kind word
  and go back to waiting a few seconds later.
- Switch the language with EN / MH and the theme with the sun, moon and
  half-disc buttons. Both sit in the top bar, and both are under You as well.

The customer screens are designed for a phone. The Merchant and Operations
workspaces also adapt to a shop computer. Reduced-motion preferences are respected.

This is a working design prototype, not an installed iPhone app.
The clock is simulated so the shops are open whenever you open the file; the
rules it drives — expiry, collection windows, the daily restock — are real.
Six contracted shops carry around twenty items each: roughly 120 listings
across bakery, meals, sweet, drinks and grocery. Shops, stock and payments are
samples. Data is stored only in this browser when
browser storage is available. No real customer account or payment is connected.
Workspace switching is for review, not authentication or production security.
The QR pass is generated locally. Camera scanning is not connected; merchants
verify collection by typing the backup code.

The bundled preview is fully offline. Five listings use real photographs; the
rest carry a drawing, because five photographs cannot cover 120 items and
repeating them would put the wrong food on the wrong card. A drawing says so on
the item page. If you paste an external photo link into the merchant editor,
that particular photo requires internet access. Custom photo links must show
the item being offered. Sample photos, drawings and allergens are demo data.

Distances are real arithmetic against real Ulaanbaatar coordinates. Your own
position is simulated: the app never asks for or reads your real location.

Opening the HTML file and the localhost preview uses separate browser storage.
Review customer checkout and merchant collection in the same preview instance.

PROJECT FILES
Open Monty.html: easiest way to review; a self-contained copy of the current build.
src/tokens.css: shared colours, type scale and spacing.
src/fonts.css: locally bundled Fraunces and Nunito Sans font faces.
src/main.jsx: customer screens and interactions.
src/styles.css: customer layout, built on the tokens.
src/Operations.jsx and operations.css: merchant and operations views.
src/Wordmark.jsx: the one wordmark used everywhere in the product.
src/components/: the companion sprites, the speech bubble, icons and controls.
src/components/Mascot.jsx: the earlier vector loaf, kept for reference, unused.
src/hooks/motion.js: motion preferences and lightweight scroll interactions.
src/i18n.js: locale formatting for money and dates, and the Mongolian catalogue.
src/catalogue.mjs: the six shops and every item, written in both languages.
src/foodart.mjs: the flat-vector drawings used where there is no photograph.
src/geo.mjs: coordinates, distances and the simulated location.
src/components/MiniMap.jsx: the schematic map.
src/location.css: the map, the location sheet and the shop rail.
src/preferences.js: theme, language and companion choice, saved in this browser.
src/pets.js: the companions a reader can choose, and their names in both languages.
src/content.js: Mongolian titles and descriptions for the sample food.
src/model.mjs: order and stock rules, built on the catalogue.
src/qr.mjs: QR code generation.
src/clock.mjs: the demo clock, pickup windows and what "closing soon" means.
src/payments.mjs: the payment provider interface, and the demo QPay behind it.
src/components/Payment.jsx: the payment sheet.
src/components/Countdown.jsx: a pickup window, counted down.
src/components/Rating.jsx: shop scores and rating a collected order.
src/lifecycle.css: the clock, the payment sheet and the trust marks.
public/assets/: local food photographs, font files, licenses and source credits.
dist/: compiled preview files.
tests/: automated checks for order rules, the catalogue, distances and QR encoding.

LANGUAGE AND APPEARANCE
The interface reads in English or Mongolian. Switch with EN / MH in the top bar,
or open You and change it under Language. Prices are in Mongolian togrog in both
languages, and dates follow the language you pick.

Light, dark and follow-my-device sit beside the language control, and under You
as well. Your choice is kept in this browser, along with the companion you pick.

A companion name is the same word in both languages, written in the script of
the language you are reading: Mishee is Мишээ, Bankhar is Банхар.

Mongolian headings are set in Literata, because Fraunces has no Cyrillic
letters. Body text stays in Nunito Sans, which does.

The Mongolian wording was written for this prototype from the project research
documents. A native speaker should still read it before it goes in front of
anyone who matters.

Native iPhone and Android applications are future work.

FOR LATER DEVELOPMENT
From a terminal opened in this folder:
  npm install
  npm start
Then open http://127.0.0.1:4173

If Windows PowerShell blocks npm.ps1, use npm.cmd instead of npm in these commands.

  npm run build   rebuilds dist/ AND regenerates "Open Monty.html"
  npm run snapshot regenerates "Open Monty.html" only
  npm test        runs the order-rule, QR and translation checks
  npm run smoke   renders every screen in both languages and reports failures
  npm run check   runs both of the above

The double-click HTML is no longer a separate manual step: npm run build keeps
it in step with the source.

A native iPhone/Android application, production backend and database are still
future work.

CONNECTING QPAY FOR REAL
Everything the integration needs is already built and designed; only the four
functions that talk to a bank are simulated. src/payments.mjs has the full
instructions at the top of the file. In short:

  1. QPay credentials are server credentials and must never reach a browser.
     Your server holds them, calls QPay, and the app calls your server.
  2. Write a 'qpay' provider with the same four functions as 'demoQPay'.
     QPay's own invoice response already carries the QR, the QR image and the
     bank deeplink list, so the payment sheet renders it unchanged.
  3. Delete settleInvoice. It is the function that decides on its own that it
     has been paid, which is correct for a prototype and a fraud vector in
     anything real. An order is only paid because your server says so.
  4. Set ACTIVE to the new provider. No screen has to change, and the reviewer
     controls on the payment sheet disappear on their own.
